README.md, before:

# IM1 Patient Facing Service Auth

[![CI/CD Pull Request](https://github.com/nhs-england-tools/repository-template/actions/workflows/cicd-1-pull-request.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/NHSDigital/im1-pfs-auth/actions/workflows/cicd-1-pull-request.yaml)
[![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=repository-template&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=im1-pfs-auth)

This is an intermediary service enabling proxies to act on behalf of patients, regardless of their GP practice. It provides an API proxy and logic layer for integrating with GP practices.

TODO: Add section on getting local environment set up and on deployment

## Table of Contents

- [IM1 Patient Facing Service Auth](#im1-patient-facing-service-auth)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Repository Structure](#repository-structure)
  - [Setup](#setup)
    - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    - [Configuration](#configuration)
  - [Usage](#usage)
    - [Repository Structure](#repository-structure-1)
    - [Key Components](#key-components)
      - [Apigee](#apigee)
      - [App](#app)
      - [Sandbox](#sandbox)
    - [Usage TODO](#usage-todo)
      - [Deployment](#deployment)
        - [Deployment Limits](#deployment-limits)
    - [Testing](#testing)
  - [Design](#design)
    - [Diagrams](#diagrams)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [Licence](#licence)

## Repository Structure

This repository includes:

- [specification/im1-pfs-auth-api.yaml](./specificationim1-pfs-auth-api.yaml) - The [Open API Specification](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/about/) describes the endpoints, methods and messages exchanged by the API. Used to generate interactive documentation for the NHS API Catalogue; the contract between the API and its consumers.
- `sandbox/` - A flask (Python) API that implements a mock implementation of the service. It's to be used as interactive documentation to illustrate interactions and concepts. It is not intended to provide an exhaustive/faithful environment suitable for full development and testing.
- `scripts/` - Utilities helpful to developers for the development and release of the specification.

## Setup

Clone the repository

```shell
git clone https://github.com/NHSDigital/im1-pfs-auth.git
cd im1-pfs-auth
```

### Prerequisites

The following software packages, or their equivalents, are expected to be installed and configured:

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) container runtime or a compatible tool, e.g. [Podman](https://podman.io/),
- [asdf](https://asdf-vm.com/) version manager,
- [GNU make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/) 3.82 or later,
- [Python](https://www.python.org/) the latest version
- [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) Python package manager
- [yq](https://github.com/mikefarah/yq) command line YAML processor
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) 22 or later

### Configuration

Installation of the toolchain dependencies.

```shell
make install
```

## Usage

### Repository Structure

Key folders for the project are:

- `.github` contains GitHub Actions workflows for CI/CD.
- `app` contains the backend application code for the API.
- `docs` contains the documentation for the API, including user guides, developer guides, and design documents.
- `postman` contains Postman collections for users to trial the sandbox environment.
- `proxygen` contains support files for the [proxygen CLI](./docs/user-guides/Proxygen_CLI.md).
- `sandbox` contains a flask application that is used to simulate the backend service for the API. When deployed the sandbox will be accessible without authentication.
- `scripts` contains scripts that are used to automate the development and deployment processes. As well as configuration files for tools the project uses.
- `specification` contains the OpenAPI specification for the API.
- `tests` contains the tests for the API.

### Key Components

#### Apigee

Apigee is the API management platform used to deploy and manage the API. It provides features such as security, analytics, and monitoring for our API.

#### App

The app is the core component of the API, containing the business logic and data access layers. It is responsible for the processing of requests and responses, such as validating the NHS login proxy token and initiating a session with the supplier system based on ODS code.

#### Sandbox

The sandbox is a testing environment that simulates the behaviour of the API without affecting the production environment. It allows developers to experiment with `im1-pfs-auth` APIs without onboarding or authenticating their requests.

### Usage TODO

After a successful installation, provide an informative example of how this project can be used. Additional code snippets, screenshots and demos work well in this space. You may also link to the other documentation resources, e.g. the [User Guide](./docs/user-guide.md) to demonstrate more use cases and to show more features.

#### Deployment

The application is deployed mainly using [Proxygen CLI](./docs/user-guides/Proxygen_CLI.md). Proxygen CLI manages all the infrastructure and deployment of the application.

For the API to be functional a docker container must be pushed to APIM's container registry. This container will then be referenced in the proxygen deployment make command to deploy the Apigee API Proxy with the correct backend container.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    User->>+Apigee: API request
    Apigee->>Backend Container: Internal forwarding
```

For more information on how to deploy the application, please refer to the [Apigee Deployment Guide](./docs/user-guides/Deployment_Guide.md).

##### Deployment Limits

Deployment limits information can be found in [confluence](https://nhsd-confluence.digital.nhs.uk/spaces/APM/pages/678899059/Deploying+your+API+with+Proxy+Generator#DeployingyourAPIwithProxyGenerator-APIconfig)

### Testing

There are multiple layers of testing which can be run from a local machine.

To run the sandbox unit tests run the following command:

```shell
make sandbox-test
```

More to follow...

## Design

### Diagrams

Here is a mermaid sequence diagram for the available endpoints and interactions with our service to third parties.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    Patient Facing Application->>+IM1-PFS-Auth: POST /authentication
    IM1-PFS-Auth->>IM1-PFS-Auth: validate request
    IM1-PFS-Auth->>GPIT-Supplier: POST /sessions
    GPIT-Supplier-->>IM1-PFS-Auth: Success
    IM1-PFS-Auth->>IM1-PFS-Auth: transform response
    IM1-PFS-Auth-->>-Patient Facing Application: Success
```

Here is a diagram showing the internal interactions within the API platform as well as where each component is hosted.

![API Flow Diagram](./docs/diagrams/API_Flow_Diagram.drawio.png)

## Contributing

Contributions to this project are welcome from anyone, providing that they conform to the [guidelines for contribution](./docs/developer-guides/CONTRIBUTING.md) and the [community code of conduct](./docs/developer-guides/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## Licence

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENCE](./LICENCE.md) file for details.

Any new work added to this repository must conform to the conditions of these licenses. In particular this means that this project may not depend on GPL-licensed or AGPL-licensed libraries, as these would violate the terms of those libraries' licenses.

The contents of this repository are protected by Crown Copyright (C).

Commit message:

NPA-5236: Add implementation of handing requests and responses

README.md, after:

# IM1 Patient Facing Service Auth

[![CI/CD Pull Request](https://github.com/nhs-england-tools/repository-template/actions/workflows/cicd-1-pull-request.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/NHSDigital/im1-pfs-auth/actions/workflows/cicd-1-pull-request.yaml)
[![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=repository-template&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=im1-pfs-auth)

This is an intermediary service enabling proxies to act on behalf of patients, regardless of their GP practice. It provides an API proxy and logic layer for integrating with GP practices.

TODO: Add section on getting local environment set up and on deployment

## Table of Contents

- [IM1 Patient Facing Service Auth](#im1-patient-facing-service-auth)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Setup](#setup)
    - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    - [Configuration](#configuration)
  - [Usage](#usage)
    - [Repository Structure](#repository-structure-1)
    - [Key Components](#key-components)
      - [Apigee](#apigee)
      - [App](#app)
      - [Sandbox](#sandbox)
    - [Usage TODO](#usage-todo)
      - [Deployment](#deployment)
        - [Deployment Limits](#deployment-limits)
    - [Testing](#testing)
  - [Design](#design)
    - [Diagrams](#diagrams)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [Licence](#licence)

## Setup

Clone the repository

```shell
git clone https://github.com/NHSDigital/im1-pfs-auth.git
cd im1-pfs-auth
```

### Prerequisites

The following software packages, or their equivalents, are expected to be installed and configured:

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) container runtime or a compatible tool, e.g. [Podman](https://podman.io/),
- [asdf](https://asdf-vm.com/) version manager,
- [GNU make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/) 3.82 or later,
- [Python](https://www.python.org/) the latest version
- [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) Python package manager
- [yq](https://github.com/mikefarah/yq) command line YAML processor
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) 22 or later

### Configuration

Installation of the toolchain dependencies.

```shell
make install
```

## Usage

### Repository Structure

Key folders for the project are:

- `.github` contains GitHub Actions workflows for CI/CD.
- `app` contains the backend application code for the API.
- `docs` contains the documentation for the API, including user guides, developer guides, and design documents.
- `postman` contains Postman collections for users to trial the sandbox environment.
- `proxygen` contains support files for the [proxygen CLI](./docs/user-guides/Proxygen_CLI.md).
- `sandbox` contains a flask application that is used to simulate the backend service for the API. When deployed the sandbox will be accessible without authentication.
- `scripts` contains scripts that are used to automate the development and deployment processes. As well as configuration files for tools the project uses.
- `specification` contains the OpenAPI specification for the API.
- `tests` contains the tests for the API.

### Key Components

#### Apigee

Apigee is the API management platform used to deploy and manage the API. It provides features such as security, analytics, and monitoring for our API.

#### App

The app is the core component of the API, containing the business logic and data access layers. It is responsible for the processing of requests and responses, such as validating the NHS login proxy token and initiating a session with the supplier system based on ODS code.

#### App Structure

The application is to aims to apply domain driven design by incorporating a decoupled architecture that separates core business lock from infrastructure concerns.

- Domain: Contains business logic
- Application: Orchestrates the use cases
- Infrastructure: Technical implementations
- App: Application entry point

#### Sandbox

The sandbox is a testing environment that simulates the behaviour of the API without affecting the production environment. It allows developers to experiment with `im1-pfs-auth` APIs without onboarding or authenticating their requests.

### Usage TODO

After a successful installation, provide an informative example of how this project can be used. Additional code snippets, screenshots and demos work well in this space. You may also link to the other documentation resources, e.g. the [User Guide](./docs/user-guide.md) to demonstrate more use cases and to show more features.

#### Deployment

The application is deployed mainly using [Proxygen CLI](./docs/user-guides/Proxygen_CLI.md). Proxygen CLI manages all the infrastructure and deployment of the application.

For the API to be functional a docker container must be pushed to APIM's container registry. This container will then be referenced in the proxygen deployment make command to deploy the Apigee API Proxy with the correct backend container.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    User->>+Apigee: API request
    Apigee->>Backend Container: Internal forwarding
```

For more information on how to deploy the application, please refer to the [Apigee Deployment Guide](./docs/user-guides/Deployment_Guide.md).

##### Deployment Limits

Deployment limits information can be found in [confluence](https://nhsd-confluence.digital.nhs.uk/spaces/APM/pages/678899059/Deploying+your+API+with+Proxy+Generator#DeployingyourAPIwithProxyGenerator-APIconfig)

### Testing

There are multiple layers of testing which can be run from a local machine.

To run the app unit tests run the following command:

```shell
make app-unit-test
```

To run the sandbox unit tests run the following command:

```shell
make sandbox-test
```

More to follow...

## Design

### Diagrams

Here is a mermaid sequence diagram for the available endpoints and interactions with our service to third parties.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    Patient Facing Application->>+IM1-PFS-Auth: POST /authentication
    IM1-PFS-Auth->>IM1-PFS-Auth: validate request
    IM1-PFS-Auth->>GPIT-Supplier: POST /sessions
    GPIT-Supplier-->>IM1-PFS-Auth: Success
    IM1-PFS-Auth->>IM1-PFS-Auth: transform response
    IM1-PFS-Auth-->>-Patient Facing Application: Success
```

Here is a diagram showing the internal interactions within the API platform as well as where each component is hosted.

![API Flow Diagram](./docs/diagrams/API_Flow_Diagram.drawio.png)

## Contributing

Contributions to this project are welcome from anyone, providing that they conform to the [guidelines for contribution](./docs/developer-guides/CONTRIBUTING.md) and the [community code of conduct](./docs/developer-guides/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## Licence

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENCE](./LICENCE.md) file for details.

Any new work added to this repository must conform to the conditions of these licenses. In particular this means that this project may not depend on GPL-licensed or AGPL-licensed libraries, as these would violate the terms of those libraries' licenses.

The contents of this repository are protected by Crown Copyright (C).
