docs/user-guides/Proxygen_CLI.md, before:

# proxygen CLI

The proxygen CLI is a dedicated command-line interface tool designed to streamline the interaction between producers and the Proxy Generator service. It provides producers with a convenient and intuitive way to deploy API instances, manage API specifications, manage secrets, and deploy them within specific environments without needing to directly interact with the API platform.

## Table of Contents

- [proxygen CLI](#proxygen-cli)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Installation and Configuration](#installation-and-configuration)
  - [Secrets](#secrets)
    - [Secrets in GitHub](#secrets-in-github)

[APIM Documentation](https://nhsd-confluence.digital.nhs.uk/spaces/APM/pages/804495095/Proxygen+CLI+user+guide#ProxygenCLIuserguide-Settingupsettingsandcredentials)

## Installation and Configuration

1. Using your favourite Python package manager, install the proxygen CLI:

   ```shell
   # UV
   uv pip install proxygen-cli
   ```

   If your favourite Python package manager fails to install the package, you can use `pip` as a fallback:

   ```shell
   # PIP
   pip install proxygen-cli
   ```

2. Confirm the installation by checking the version:

   ```shell
   proxygen --version
   ```

   If there is an error with the command, ensure that `pydantic` and all proxygen's dependencies are installed correctly.

3. Configure the CLI by running:

   ```shell
   proxygen settings set api im1-pfs-auth
   ```

4. Set up proxygen credentials and settings

   Complete steps 2.2 from instructions in the [APIM Documentation](https://nhsd-confluence.digital.nhs.uk/spaces/APM/pages/804495095/Proxygen+CLI+user+guide#ProxygenCLIuserguide-Configuringsettingsandcredentials) to set up your credentials and settings.

   > [!NOTE]
   > proxygen-cli doesn't use `-h` to display help. Instead, use `--help` to see available commands and options.

5. Verify the installation by running:

   ```shell
   proxygen pytest-nhsd-apim get-token
   ```

## Secrets

Secrets used for machine access are stored in Validated Relationships Service's (VRS) AWS Prod Secrets Manager with the prefix `im1-pfs-auth/proxygen/<secret>`. As well the private key is available in GitHub Secrets under the name `PROXYGEN_PRIVATE_KEY`.
Secrets used for machine access are stored in Validated Relationships Service's (VRS) AWS Prod Secrets Manager with the prefix `im1-pfs-auth/proxygen/<secret>`.

### Secrets in GitHub

As well secrets are held in GitHub Secrets for the project. The secrets are used to authenticate the workflows to deploy the API to the NHS API Platform. The secrets are:
the private key is available in GitHub Secrets under the names `PROXYGEN_CLIENT_ID`, `PROXYGEN_KEY_ID`, and `PROXYGEN_PRIVATE_KEY`.

Commit message:

NPA-5244: Update environment secrets names and enable e2e GitHub action/PR checks

docs/user-guides/Proxygen_CLI.md, after:

# proxygen CLI

The proxygen CLI is a dedicated command-line interface tool designed to streamline the interaction between producers and the Proxy Generator service. It provides producers with a convenient and intuitive way to deploy API instances, manage API specifications, manage secrets, and deploy them within specific environments without needing to directly interact with the API platform.

## Table of Contents

- [proxygen CLI](#proxygen-cli)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Installation and Configuration](#installation-and-configuration)
  - [Secrets](#secrets)
    - [Secrets in GitHub](#secrets-in-github)

[APIM Documentation](https://nhsd-confluence.digital.nhs.uk/spaces/APM/pages/804495095/Proxygen+CLI+user+guide#ProxygenCLIuserguide-Settingupsettingsandcredentials)

## Installation and Configuration

1. Using your favourite Python package manager, install the proxygen CLI:

   ```shell
   # UV
   uv pip install proxygen-cli
   ```

   If your favourite Python package manager fails to install the package, you can use `pip` as a fallback:

   ```shell
   # PIP
   pip install proxygen-cli
   ```

1a. Alternative proxygen install

    Proxygen currently, 2025-10-09, fails to build with Python 3.13, the version used in the IM1 repository, due to an inability to build `lxml==4.9.4`.

    A workaround is to create a separate virtual environment at a lower Python version, then build proxygen for that environment, and transfer the binary to the IM1 repository virtual environment.

    ```shell
    uv venv -p 3.12 # In a directory not containing the IM1 repository
    uv pip install proxygen-cli
    cp .venv/bin/proxygen <IM1 Repository>/.venv/bin/
    ```

2. Confirm the installation by checking the version:

   ```shell
   proxygen --version
   ```

   If there is an error with the command, ensure that `pydantic` and all proxygen's dependencies are installed correctly.

3. Configure the CLI by running:

   ```shell
   proxygen settings set api im1-pfs-auth
   ```

4. Set up proxygen credentials and settings

   Complete steps 2.2 from instructions in the [APIM Documentation](https://nhsd-confluence.digital.nhs.uk/spaces/APM/pages/804495095/Proxygen+CLI+user+guide#ProxygenCLIuserguide-Configuringsettingsandcredentials) to set up your credentials and settings.

   > [!NOTE]
   > proxygen-cli doesn't use `-h` to display help. Instead, use `--help` to see available commands and options.

5. Verify the installation by running:

   ```shell
   proxygen pytest-nhsd-apim get-token
   ```

## Secrets

Secrets used for machine access are stored in Validated Relationships Service's (VRS) AWS Prod Secrets Manager with the prefix `im1-pfs-auth/proxygen/<secret>`. As well the private key is available in GitHub Secrets under the name `PROXYGEN_PRIVATE_KEY`.
Secrets used for machine access are stored in Validated Relationships Service's (VRS) AWS Prod Secrets Manager with the prefix `im1-pfs-auth/proxygen/<secret>`.

### Secrets in GitHub

As well secrets are held in GitHub Secrets for the project. The secrets are used to authenticate the workflows to deploy the API to the NHS API Platform. The secrets are:
the private key is available in GitHub Secrets under the names `PROXYGEN_CLIENT_ID`, `PROXYGEN_KEY_ID`, and `PROXYGEN_PRIVATE_KEY`.
